- [Instructor] Sometimes the best way to communicate
with your team is by picking up the phone
and talking to them.
Teams allows you to do just that
using an internet connection without using an actual phone.
In this lesson, I'll show you the different ways
to make direct phone calls using Teams.
Once you're in Teams, there are several ways to make calls.
First I'll show you how to call a contact directly
from a chat.
To call from a chat, open the chat you want to call from.
Calling from a chat will call everyone in the chat.
In the upper right corner,
you can see there's a button for a video or audio call.
When you're ready to make your call,
simply select video call
or audio call and Teams will connect you.
Next I'll show you how to make calls using calls.
Select calls from the left side of the app.
From the phone tab, you can make a call
by entering the name of the person you want to join the call
in the type a name box.
You can add multiple people here.
Then select call to make the call.
Another way to make calls is to select someone
from your call history.
Just hover over a previous call and select the call button
once it appears.
You can also make calls from your contacts tab.
Find the contact you would like to call.
Then select the type of call you want to make.
Either a video call or an audio call.
Here you can also send a direct message
or an email to any one of your contacts.
I want to call Isaiah so we can chat
about a meeting we just had
for an upcoming skills conference that we're planning.
Before I call, I want to check his presence.
Presence shows your availability and status to others
and as part of your profile in Teams.
To help you better understand presence,
I'll show you the different presence states
and how to change your status in Teams.
The little dot
on my profile indicates my availability.
To change your availability, go to your profile
and select a status from the list.
There are different symbols for each status.
So take a moment to familiarize yourself with them.
There are symbols to indicate when you're available,
busy, when you don't want to be disturbed, when you are away,
and when you are offline.
I want to call Isaiah
but I can see that Isaiah is in do not disturb.
So I won't call him now.
But I see Lynne is available
and she might have the information I need
so I'll give her a call.
Now that you know how to make phone calls in Teams,
find a way to use each of these methods
to make calls on your Teams.